I'm going to show you how to make
flatbread faster than it would take you
to drive to the store and buy it which
you will never do again after you have
homemade flatbread it's that good let me
show you how easy it is thirty minutes
start to finish okay we're going to
start with a mixer makes a job much
easier we're going to use one and a
quarter cups of flour I'm using
all-purpose flour you can use bread
flour if you want we're going to use
yeast now let me tell you about the
yeast I'm using active dry yeast but you
can use either one you can use the
active dry or the instant yeast like
that just make sure you know the
temperature when you use active dry it's
110 degrees
this one's 120 so I'm going to use this
one today so it's one teaspoon of yeast
it's a half teaspoon of salt two
teaspoons of olive oil and a half cup of
warm water so I checked it's good to use
a instant-read thermometer if you have
one to make sure that the water
temperature is right so we'll get this
going and add the water
and we're going to mix it like that for
one minute and we'll start shaping the
bread right as you can see it's become
kind of a nice little ball of dough
almost it's going to be a little sticky
but that's good so we're going to take
it out and what this did it mixed it it
also kind of needed it so we're going to
put on a well floured board I set my
board up already and just kind of shape
it into a little ball like that get it
smoothed out a little bit and now we're
going to cover this and let it rest for
ten minutes so there that's it so after
a 10-minute rest the first thing you're
going to do is to preheat a cast-iron
pan pretty hot to medium-high so we're
going to start that preheating and while
it's heating we're going to start to
shape these breads so see it's kind of
puffed up a little bit after a ten
minute rest
so now the first thing we're going to do
is to cut this into four this is going
to make four flat breads okay so we cut
it into four like this and then like
that and each one gets shaped into a
ball so this is the way I kind of like
kind of kind of go you know there's like
a drier part on the top so you just kind
of shape it like that it's sticky you
just dip it in flour and so there is one
and keep everything floured so put it on
a floured surface there's one you just
want to get it round enough so we can
get rolled into a ball so there's four
of them right there now we're going to
flour this surface really well and put a
little bit over here I'm going to set
these aside and we're just going to roll
them into I don't know about a six inch
circle okay so I usually press it down
to get it started
get my rolling pin and you just roll
there's no secret way to roll you just
whatever it takes to get it flat
I'd like to do all of them before we
start to cook because they cook so fast
so there there's one right there
we're going to do three more of these I
just kind of set them aside while I do
the others okay here's the last one
now you don't roll them quite as thin as
when you make tortillas so you want to
have a little bit thickness so there's
the last one ready to go and if you're
not sure you can test your pan to make
sure it's hot enough by just putting a
few drops of water on it you get that
sizzle you know it's hot enough okay so
now watch how quickly they cook here's
the first one on it on an ungreased pan
right there now you're going to be able
to flip it and check it you can use a
spatula like this or you can use tongs
whichever you have whichever is easier
so if you if you watch as it starts to
cook it gets little bubbles like that
and the bubbles will get bigger and
bigger and you'll start to puff up a
little bit and then we're going to flip
it over it's about one minute per side
all right see the bubbles are starting
to get bigger it's been about I don't
know 40 seconds and you can check the
bottom because you never know how hot
look at that how beautiful look that's
it that's flatbread right there one
minute per side and it's done there's no
rule about how many times you can flip
it over not doesn't matter it's just
bread you know see that's what naan
looks like you know naan is flat bread
this is flat breads really date back
centuries I mean every every culture has
been making flatbread this looks about
done so all right so you put them on a
plate and if you're going to serve them
right away you can just put the same
towel on to keep them warm so I'll keep
it warm and take the next one there it
goes
see how look at this one how beautifully
it's bubbling up like that I think the
longer you let the dough rest the more
you'll get pockets inside like that and
then you have those pita pockets you
know but look look how beautiful that's
perfect there
here's another one now this is see you
can get it as brown as you like but this
this is this is perfect right here but
what happens sometimes too is the flower
that's on the from rolling them gets in
the pan and it converts so just grab and
carefully grab a paper towel and just
wipe out that flower so it doesn't so
doesn't burn okay here's the last one
and I note it if the free flower burns a
little bit in the pan take a look at
these from rolling and just brush off
the flower just brush it off and it
won't land in a pan okay here's the last
one
look at these I'm beautiful all right so
here you have four freshly made still
warm flat breads you can do anything
with slat bread you can make a quick
pizza out of them you can make a Greek
hero
you can wrap like a tuna sandwich in it
anything you like you can wrap it in a
flatbread I'd like to wrap our pool boy
up in the flatbread but he said no